[Music]
you did it you fought through the
impossible time castle hurt a sketchy
philosophy seminar fired the professor
and saved the day
roll credits but is that it maybe not
for decades there has been an
institution in games the New Game+ but
game to game the same concept can mean a
lot of different things for some games
the New Game+ is a way to play a game
with the limits broken for others it's
an invitation to repeat the game in a
more challenging way or to continue
building and improving a character for
some games it's a way to explore more
Story content and get a fuller picture
of what was really going on or what
could have been and for many games it's
a combination of some or all of the
above and yet all these different
approaches are tied together with the
same shorthand New Game+ today we're
going to look at four major flavors of
New Game+ god mode secondary challenge
skill ramp and narrative device go
through some of the pros and cons of
each style and see how a lot of games
put their own unique spin on the same
concept but first a word from our
sponsors well there's a lot of us stuck
inside for the immediate future but
luckily if you're watching this video
your internet works and that's all you
need to take advantage of today's
sponsor skill share I've been taking a
class by Dan and Nathan that DK ng
Studios called mastering illustrator 10
tips and tricks to speed up your
workflow I bet you can guess the class
topic the class uses a ton of examples
to get the most out of my illustrator
design process and help me with how to
speed up my blend tool workflow and how
to get better color depth in my vector
files it's great Skillshare has
thousands of courses on illustration
music creative writing animation and
tons of other topics for you to explore
and frankly taking the class has helped
reduce my stress a little it might help
give you a nice respite at a time when
we could all use one the first thousand
people to click the link in the
description will get a two-month free
trial of
Premium Membership so you can explore
your creativity
thanks Skillshare oh and a couple things
before we begin one lots of the games
that will talk about will dip into more
than one category but we're mainly
highlighting one aspect of these games
too we've put in practically zero
spoilers which is amazing considering
what we're talking about but if you're
very sensitive to spoilers
check the description on this video for
a list of timestamps of the games we
talked about if you boil it down almost
every games new game plus mode is just a
way to start a new game but not quite
started from scratch something always
carries over but there are so many
things that could get carried over lots
of games bring over the players
character progress from the previous run
weapons abilities stats you can take a
late-game character and place them at
the start or the game could grant new
weapons and powers far beyond what a
normal run through would ever provide
for developers it's an easy mode to make
since the game content doesn't
fundamentally change in practice it
works a lot like a god mode cheat code
but given as a reward to the very people
who are in a position to appreciate just
how far their character has come instead
of just something anyone could unlock at
any time Resident Evil fours New Game+
is very much that vanilla god mode it
carries over your weapons items and
money from the previous playthrough and
makes them overpowered weapons available
for purchase the infinite rocket
launcher and the Chicago typewriter
throw balance out the window and are
meant to blast through foes that were
once a huge threat as you keep beating
the game you'll keep stockpiling the
equipment eventually you'll gain access
to everything the game has but there are
still some limits the professional
difficulty is locked out
the devs didn't want players to cheese
their way through the hardest difficulty
with the best weapons the dead space
series does roughly the same thing as re
4 you get to keep your upgrade weapons
and other buzzes to mow through early
game enemies but Dead Space 2 does let
you crank up the difficulty while
keeping your overpowered inventory Metal
Gear Solid 3 allows you to bring over
all of your weapons items and special
camouflage from your previous
playthrough but it also unlocks little
bonuses here and there
somehow you did you might get a powerful
new weapon or special camo for being the
game very quickly or without taking out
many enemies or never getting detected
it's a god mode doled out slowly
based on how you've done in the past in
a game build for doing multiple full
playthroughs using different tactics
it also dips into some categories we'll
talk about later persona 5 carries over
your money equipment and the persona
compendium and we'll let you Reese um in
registered personas which can make your
main character ridiculously overpowered
for most of the game while you can pick
a higher difficulty late-game personas
than equipment throw the game's balance
out the window on top of that you carry
over your social stats too you can
bypass lots of the social checks that
limit your progress early on and certain
confidants now rank up much faster it's
convenient but just like an re4 in dead
space
it mucks with the game design in the
same way a cheat code might a big part
of persona is efficient time management
and the pressure of using your time
wisely is a core component of the design
if you can already pass all the social
checks from day one the new game+
trivializes a lot of the game sure it
lets you get every confidant if you
missed a few on your last run there is a
super boss in new game+
which is nice but does trivialize huge
chunks of a very long game which is a
pretty steep price to pay even though
new game+ is by design a mode for the
die-hard crowd that doesn't mean there
aren't ripple effects from the choices
you make and that's an issue with the
god mode new game+
by design it's a path that throws game
balance out the window that can be very
fun but also very fleeting it's a
sledgehammer prone to trivializing large
chunks of the game which can be a pretty
big discouragement for players to stick
with the New Game+ run for a longer
period of time that doesn't make it a
bad option it's just another thing to
consider if you're designing your own
new game plus luckily that's not the
only way to do a new game plus another
way to do it is to turn the concept odds
head instead of making the characters
more powerful make the game more
difficult instead of focusing on
bringing over stats and what the player
accomplished in game the more difficult
playthrough relies on players bringing
over their experience and draws fun from
getting their skills
tested the new game+ the livers of
familiar game but the tougher challenge
frames it in a new context some games
dip into both secondary challenge and
god mode at the same time most of the
Ratchet and Clank games have a challenge
mode where you keep your weapons but
enemies also get a boost in power to
match you you gain a new set of upgrades
for all of your weapons the enemies are
a little stronger but still no match for
your ridiculous arsenal let alone when
you get the series staple super weapon
the Rhino this approach can fix some of
the trivialization problems with a pure
god mode but it doesn't deliver all that
much of a challenge either it's kind of
awkwardly in the middle the souls games
lean more towards only the secondary
challenge style on its face the new
game+ looks like it's part God mode
players keep their equipment stats and
items but instead of it being an easy
rom through the kingdoms of Lordran or
drangleic or whatever the enemies are
much stronger and more durable Dark
Souls 2 adds even more with extra
phantom enemies new items and different
enemy compositions they'll even place
new enemies to surprise ya plus enemies
keep changing and scaling up with you
for as many as 7 new game+ cycles each
cycle pushes the challenge further and
further to ridiculous levels meant for
the most dedicated of hardcore fans the
secondary challenge style is great for
raising the ceiling for players that
already love your systems and want to
aspire towards a tougher challenge but
there are drawbacks too for some players
pitching a new game plus mode as just
like the last time but it's more work to
complete is not a strong argument it's
almost the inverted problem that God
mode has the lack of challenge is fun
for some players and for others not in
secondary challenge for some the
increased challenge is fun and for
others not there's no pleasing everyone
but there's another problem to watch out
for it can be easy the phone in this
type of new game+ by just tinkering with
the enemy health and damage sliders and
calling it a day code veins New Game+
does just that there's no change in
enemy behavior or placements and nothing
else it's serviceable but it's very
bare-bones the best versions of
secondary challenge do something else
alongside making
he's tougher Batman Arkham City carries
over upgrades and you're Riddler trophy
progress but it also changes the enemy
AI a bit they change their
configurations get tougher and get a lot
more aggressive on top of that the game
forces a challenge from the hard mode on
to normal mode players it removes the
counter indicator that shows up when
enemies are attacking forcing players to
carefully observe the enemies animation
during fights some games up the
challenge by putting in an entire extra
unlockable mode as their new game plus
you can see that's in a lot of Nintendo
games the Zelda series has done it in a
few different ways the original NES game
included a second quest which is
practically a whole new game the dungeon
layouts and the item locations are
different and the game is designed to be
harder some dungeons even get multiple
bosses Ocarina of times Master Quest is
roughly similar unlocking in the 3ds
remake after you beat the game or just
as a whole separate discs in the
GameCube port Master Quest dungeons are
remixed to be more challenging with
different enemy placements altered
layouts and puzzles and enemies that hit
harder this approach gives you mostly
the same game but it's more interesting
than if they had just messed around with
the sliders of enemies or place more of
them
Super Mario galaxy's 100% reward is
super Luigi galaxy where you can play
through the whole game as Berto I mean
Luigi Luigi can run faster and jump
higher but has less traction so he
slides around a little in a precise
platformer that's a big change plus they
alter a few levels into a greater
challenge like with Luigi's purple coins
like galaxies Donkey Kong Country
Returns and its sequel feature their own
remix modes as a hundred percent bonus
reward in returns the mode has mirrored
levels no access to your inventory no
access to Diddy oh and you have only one
hit point tropical freezes hard mode is
a little different levels aren't
mirrored inventory items are still
unavailable it disables checkpoints but
you can play as any of the five Kong
solo which you couldn't do before
secondary challenges and extra modes are
great but the best version of that can
mean spending a lot of time to build a
whole
new mode what would be nice is something
that can just extend the life of the
core of a game without having to build a
substantial new mode and without just
plastering a new weapon or item on top
of a repeat playthrough so far lots of
the games we've talked about have tied
the end of the game story to the end of
the characters progression that doesn't
have to be the case
some games build their character
development system to take up more time
than you'll have on one run-through of
the game it's not quite a god mode you
have to work for it it's not quite a
secondary challenge as you're still
working through the progression of your
character as you left them in the first
playthrough think very long tech tree
and there's maybe no game that does it
better than Devil May Cry 5 Devil May
Cry 5 uses a ton of unlockable abilities
and extra difficulties that are meant to
be incorporated into your character as
you play the game over and over again
the skill trees for each of the three
playable characters have a ton of
different moves to use and the game
doesn't give you access to everything in
one playthrough as you replay missions
all upgrades you get are permanent even
on higher difficulties Daunte alone has
17 different skill sets of different
melee weapons ranged weapons styles and
other abilities most characters have a
handful of additional skills to unlock
with the red orbs that players find and
earn through playing the game and
getting high rankings unless they do a
lot of grinding players won't have
nearly enough to unlock every skill in
their first playthrough some abilities
can't even unlock until you reach the
final boss so even on your second or
even third playthrough you won't have
your characters complete moveset the
slow development of your moves is a key
part of the game's progression and is a
frequent hallmark of the character
action genre over time the game's skill
ceiling slowly keeps rising as you
unlock more and more tools the style on
enemies with the way Devil May Cry 5
rewards deep knowledge of your combat
options and the way the skills are given
out combined to make the game's combat
system blossom exponentially increasing
how fluid and fun the game's combat
system can be DMC fives unlockable
difficulty modes play a part too by
withholding large parts of your move set
DMC 5 allows players to ease into a
higher level of play while also laying
out a candy trail of unlockable
difficulty
it's almost like an elaborate tutorial
where the game doesn't truly begin until
you at least beat the final boss and
unlock the son of Sparta difficulty in
this mode every stage will use different
enemy compositions using the game's
entire bestiary and game enemies can
appear from the very start and thinks
the players earned experience and the
powered up characters it shouldn't be
overwhelming it adds a fresh and
satisfying new challenge that slow burn
structure makes room for some fun
secrets to the game's prologue features
a boss that you're not meant to be at
the very beginning but once you get
better and more powerful it's very
possible you can even get a secret
ending it's not just Devil May Cry
though the borderland series gives you
true vault hunter mode where you keep
all your weapons and abilities and keep
charging up your skill tree and we scale
up with you and the procedurally
generated weapons you come across scale
up to providing a smooth loop of
progression that lasts throughout
multiple playthroughs if a game takes
the skill ramp approach be wary of
making the early move set to basic if a
game isn't fun the first time players
won't bother with new game+ Platinum's
take on the legend of korra made a
mistake here the me of cours Musa is
tied to 4 different elemental bending
styles each with its own strengths and
weaknesses once you get them all
switching between them during combat and
performing combos is fun enough but the
game's story setup creates a big problem
you're forced to start without any of
the bending styles and the fun of the
combat just isn't there without them
you'll slowly unlock each form
throughout the game but you won't get
access to all four styles until you're
near the end if you stick with the game
you will be able to use your full moves
that when you replay those early stages
but it's a slog to even get that far
even though the game isn't very long
Dead Rising is even more explicitly
built around playing and replaying a
main storyline to build up skills over
time you can choose to restart at any
point and carry over your staff
progression to the next run Lilla matmo
is on a scripted three-day schedule with
many time-sensitive missions to do and
survivors to save you can't do
everything your first run and they'll
probably be a few playthroughs before
you understand
and your character is strong enough to
complete some of the missions and boss
fights on the games tightly scripted
schedule and speaking of progression
tying into a games narrative it's time
to talk about our last category there's
one more common way to reward players
for playing a game over and over again
New Game+ in a story heavy game is a
great time to show more context or
reveal more hidden information in a
story or let players go down completely
different paths than they did in the
first run-through if the story is the
main attraction to a game and the new
game+ provides a unique enough story
experience that's often plenty to keep
players interested with or without any
additional changes to the game's
mechanics first and foremost is Chrono
Trigger the game that was the very
origin of the name New Game+ Chrono
Trigger allows you to start a new game
with your endgame characters which is
pretty standard the groundbreaking part
comes in with the game's elaborate
branching story structure that unlocks
after you beat the game the first time
there are over a dozen different paths
to the final boss and they're all tied
to what's going on right at that moment
in the story when you decide to make
your final stand against la voz gag
endings tragic endings they've run a
very wide range of alternate storylines
from your first run the DS version adds
even more new content that can only be
seen in the new game + Chrono Cross
keeps up the tradition with multiple
endings based on the game's extensive
branching choice system the same allies
can be recruited in different ways
different paths can have different
people participating and you can choose
to play through different events than on
your first playthrough the story adapts
just as much as it does in Chrono
Trigger and rewards players that have
kept up with the game's pretty
convoluted storyline the zapping system
in the original version of Resident Evil
2 is another unique take on the story
driven new game + re - has you choose
between two different characters who
each have their own version of the story
each character has an A & B scenario
that play out differently depending on
the order their chosen choices that the
player makes in the a scenario for
character one can also influence the B
scenario for character - like taking
certain items in Leon's run can result
in them being missing for
claire's the 2018 remake waters down
this system reducing the variance
between who you pick first in order to
have a more complete single story but we
can't talked about story based New Game+
design without the most elaborate and
dramatic version of the model near and
Nier automata the original near uses the
idea of New Game+ as the story framing
device the second playthrough or route B
adds additional context and information
that flips your understanding of the
whole story that concept is dialed up to
11 in the sequel near tamada the game
effectively has five major endings the
first two playthroughs route a and B
have you playing most of the game as
different characters with different play
styles the second playthrough overlaps a
lot with the first but it gives a
different perspective on the game's
events and builds to something more
towards the end
once you've finished route B route C and
D will begin there not at all the same
game Nier automata uses the idea of a
New Game+ as another unorthodox framing
device where each run-through is closer
to a chapter than it is a rerun of a
familiar experience the game briefly
plays into the expectations of a
traditional New Game Plus mode and route
B then shatters them and makes what
other games often throw in as a little
bonus into an absolute must play to see
where the story goes next and it goes so
much deeper under Tales New Game+ system
is different but just as elaborate
there's no traditional New Game+ with
carried over gear and skills instead
undertale likes to use its repeat
playthroughs for some meta storytelling
and to comment on the very concept of
replaying the same story over and over
certain characters will imply that
they're aware of your actions in
previous playthroughs and that the
timeline within the game has repeated
you can even be locked out of certain
endings based on choices you made in
completely different runs near Tomita
and undertale are a fantastic pair of
games to get you thinking about what you
can do if you come at the new game+
concept from a totally different angle
the to Zelda Oracle games have a
story-driven new game+ but the mechanics
are pretty strange when you complete one
of the two games you get a password to
enter into the other game which will
link the two of them together the linked
version of each game unlocks extra story
content that connects the two games into
a single complete story it's like the a
and B scenarios in re 2 but on a grander
scale you'll start out with four hearts
instead of three characters from the
previous game will appear your chosen
companion is carried over and you will
be able to unlock some of the most
powerful items and equipment the order
you complete the games matters - and
starting with one or the other will
change the story around a bit and of
course using a new game plus mode as a
narrative device relies on having a
narrative worth telling and revisiting
look at the quiet man it mutes dialogue
in your first playthrough so you can be
surprised on the second at what was
really going on except the story wasn't
written to make sense without dialogue
whoops if a game's narrative is barely
worth telling once it probably won't be
better on the second run no matter what
you do there are so many more games with
little nuances and tweaks to the new
game+ concept that we haven't covered
let us know in the comments about some
of your favorite games that use new
game+ well or more angles games to take
to make their new game+ special we might
mention it in a future video New Game+
is a deceptively simple concept
overflowing with potential
[Music]